# Backend Notes

### Brief:
The backend consists of a single development server in Python using Flask _for now_. It will fulfill the functionality list below once completed!

### Functionality: (Type Test Lifecycle)
 1. Generate pseudo-random word sequences (with an ending period) using a special algorithm weighted by word difficulty, length, etc. 
 2. Send the word gibberish to the client page where the type tester is.
    - **NOTE**: The type tester page must be reloaded from the client side to request dynamic text _for now_.
 3. Recieves JSON from the type test page that a client completed and uses the original and user-typed strings for analysis.
 4. Sends a final JSON response containing a dynamic route referring to a unique image stored in the server's `histograms/` folder. The image must be a historgram generated by the data science libaries. However, the performance is somewhat slow: up to 5 second analysis-to-response times by the backend may annoy users.
    - **NOTE**: Again, a new session must be done by reloading the type tester page. I think this is the easier way to get a prototype working. - "DrkWithT"

### Future Features:
 - **ADAPTIVE DIFFICULTY**: The server can store special data to "remember" the last difficulty factors and the current difficulty factors in order to adjust for any next typer test. This process would occur between reloads of the test page.
 - **USER AUTHENTICATION (maybe)**: All users are anonymous for now, but an SQL database can store hashed passwords with their usernames for remembering users. Then another SQL table could store saved test results for any specific user.
